h1. Demo app for receiving email on Heroku using Sendgrip

h4. You'll need
# a rails app
# a domain (something.com)
# domain host (ex: namecheap.com) and ability to set nameservers of a domain (how else will we make an email address to send to?)
# a heroku account (free)

h2. Let's do this BDD, test first

h3. Write Cucumber steps

"our cucumber feature":https://github.com/joshcrews/receive-email-on-heroku-demo-app/blob/master/features/receive_emails.feature
	
h4. Setup step definitions

"link to step definition code":https://github.com/joshcrews/receive-email-on-heroku-demo-app/blob/master/features/step_definitions/email_steps.rb

You'll need to include some special lines in order to enable Rack::Test, which lets us simulate a POST HTTP action in test mode.

<pre>World(Rack::Test::Methods)</pre>

Goes in the step definition and 
<pre>module CapybaraApp
def app; Capybara.app; end
end
World(CapybaraApp)</pre>

goes in features/support/env.rb

(above stuff I was much helped by this blogpost: http://www.anthonyeden.com/2010/11/testing-rest-apis-with-cucumber-and-rack-test/)

h3.  Now build the app test first

Run 'cucumber features' again and again until you make the tests pass.  More info on cucumber: http://cukes.info.

To get cucumber, copy the Gemfile in this app to yours, and run 'bundle install'.  If you don't have bundler, run 'gem install bundler'

h4. Discontent to build the app?

It's not that hard, but can look at the "finished branch":https://github.com/joshcrews/receive-email-on-heroku-demo-app/tree/finished if you want to see how I did it.

h2. Set up heroku

Install heroku gem
<pre>gem install heroku</pre>

Create heroku app
<pre>heroku create your_app_name</pre>

Add heroku add ons for this project

<pre>heroku addons:add custom_domains:basic
heroku addons:add zerigo_dns:basic
heroku addons:add sendgrid:free</pre>

Push app to heroku
<pre>git push heroku master</pre>

h2. Setup Sendgrid

Sendgrid is a web-service email sender

Go to Sendgrid: http://sendgrid.com/

Login with your heroku/sendgrid details
Get them by running

<pre>heroku config --long</pre>

It looks like:
SENDGRID_PASSWORD   => xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
SENDGRID_USERNAME   => app35xxxx@heroku.com

Login to sendgrid

Follow Developers
Follow Parse Incoming Email

Fill in Hostname with your domain name (something.com)
Fill in URL with the url that your app can receive POSTs at (something.com/incoming_emails)

Done with Sendgrid

h2. Setup Heroku

Login to your heroku account, go to your app, and select Custom Domains from Add-ons
Add your domain name (ex: something.com)
Select Zerigo DNS from Add-ons
Click Configure
Follow "+ add"
Choose "MX" for type
Enter "mx.sendgrid.net" in "data"
Press "Save"

h2. Setup domain at registrar

Set nameservers at your domain registrar to

a.ns.zerigo.net
b.ns.zerigo.net
c.ns.zerigo.net
d.ns.zerigo.net
e.ns.zerigo.net

More info: http://docs.heroku.com/zerigo

h2. Test an email

Assuming all the nameserver stuff has worked itself out (you can test it be running 'host something.com' in the terminal)

Send a test email to 'any_email_address_at_all@something.com'

Refresh your heroku app
Hopefully, your from email address just showed up on the homepage!

Special thanks to this blog post for helping me get started: http://nanceskitchen.com/2010/02/21/accept-incoming-emails-into-a-heroku-app-using-sendgrid/